hey big hello from raleigh north
carolina welcome to another episode of
b2b marketing and more with pam yay
christina
del vr
is our guest today and she's the author
of the book go way does that sound cool
or what
and the book is all about marketing
strategy revenue and growth
like me she's also a b2b marketer so
welcome christina thank you so much for
having me i'm super excited i know pam
you and i could talk b2b
geeky marketing for hours every day
every minute yes yes yes
absolutely
the topic we want to talk about today
and we want to get some insights and
wisdom from christina is how marketer
can better talk to the c-suite so they
can understand us
so much better
and the marketing tend to be very
complicated and many marketers have a
hard time helping their c-suite
understand marketing's impact so
christina do you have any suggestions in
terms of what marketers should do go
about communicating with c-suite
i have so much you know and it's
interesting because i feel like
marketers in general do a bad job
marketing ourselves what
that is not true i'm completely offended
[Laughter]
maybe you're like amazing at it there's
some people who are amazing at it but i
think that's kind of the key
issue that we have as marketers is
really understanding first off
that we are speaking a very different
language than the leaders our companies
are speaking we are in our day-to-day
our minutia
and really trying to help the company
overall but then we have a really bad
way of articulating what that is to
leaders so basically whenever i go into
a board meeting i have one slide and it
shows the revenue that we brought in
for our company and it usually is all of
the revenue that the company brought in
because we had an impact in that some
way shape or form along that entire
customer journey and and we'll start
with that number and then we can have
conversations about it and so that's
where i start now obviously a lot not
everybody's going to be going into a
board meeting and so how do you talk
about it how do you phrase it and how do
you think about it and i think that one
of the key things that we need to do is
really start understanding that we own
revenue we are the ones who are bringing
in the revenue and we need to start
talking about it from that standpoint i
know you talk a lot about
data and an ai and how all that's
playing into it which i think is amazing
um and we need to take that and and
really talk about what it is that we're
doing the value that we're bringing the
impact that we're having from the
standpoint of revenue that's great i
love that but i know a lot of marketers
they have a hard time quantified the
revenue contribution so what are some of
the specific steps they need to do from
the get-go to make sure they capture
that there's the component of the data
itself like you're saying and that
actual revenue number and then there's
the attribution right and that's where
we we often have trouble with with that
and so i like to take it a little bit
further back and think about
the entire customer journey and all of
the things that marketers are doing as
part of that marketer as part of that
customer journey like from starting with
a product like what do we do with
product and the product team to help
them build a better product think about
features and functionality look at
pricing and bundling like we are
involved in all of that when it comes to
product and again we are involved so
many different ways across that customer
journey sales obviously marketing sales
enablement and then even customer
support and success again we do a lot
with b2b so we're talking long-term
contracts multi-year contracts
and how can marketing help customer
support and success ensure that we we
can reduce churn so these are all areas
that marketers actually already have a
hand in we just need to recognize that
more and then help others in the
organization understand the
contributions we're making across that
customer journey therefore when we say
or like when i go to the board meeting
with my one slide that shows all the
revenue we brought in for that quarter
and it's all attributed some way to
marketing they have a better
understanding of what i mean by that so
i can say well by increasing our price
you know talking to product and
increasing our price or changing our
bundles which allowed us to have
you know to contribute more value and
charge a higher price this is how
marketing contributed to revenue from
that standpoint from a sales enablement
standpoint what content how did we help
sales sell better sell faster or sell
bigger deals
we can show that because now people
understand all the different ways that
marketing has played in these different
roles and then from a customer success
standpoint again when you're talking
about churn are we helping customer
success build how-to videos or do
webinars or have faqs on our website or
manage the knowledge base what are we
doing as marketers which again we're
already doing all of this we're just not
thinking about it in terms of how it
really is contributing to the overall
number that we're looking at which again
is usually that revenue number
let me paraphrase into a couple points
number one is to expand the marketing
influence kind of like when i call it
upstream like as a part of product
development as a product the bundling
package if you are selling sas based
platforms or whatnot understand in terms
of how the pricing work and if you
actually have external data or some
insights to actually share that
information bring that in
and so that's on the product side and on
the sales side is obviously sales
enablement what can you do to actually
support them one of the easiest way to
support them is actually share the
content with them especially for the
loan purchasing cycle
content is one way of doing it and also
if you understand their sales stages and
along the different sales stages what
can you do to actually support them but
i think in order to do that you have to
understand what their needs are would
you agree especially on your side you
have to understand what they do what
they need then you kind of tailor your
support specifically for that needs
absolutely and i know we do that in
marketing with our own roles
we're trying to get better at it from a
sales and sales enablement standpoint
and then from the product standpoint i
think it's important to consider
sharing things in context right so like
when we're talking about why we need
this feature or function or why we want
to bundle it this way
or why we need to maybe listen more to
our customers and you know
manage an advisory committee whatever
that looks like we need to put
everything in context so they understand
what it is that we're trying to
accomplish and how we can help them
and i think that goes very much to sales
as well there's so many times when we're
like okay here's a script or here's
here's a case study right we don't
really explain
how to use the content that we're
developing and like you're saying at
what stage we should be using it right
like this is a perfect piece for when
you're nurturing it like if you have a
really long sales cycle that's 18 months
like at 12 months this is a good piece
to use right like we need to help them
understand how to use that content as
well another thing i would like to get
your thought is obviously for marketers
a lot of things we do especially the
money we spend on tend to be for
campaigns
and outreach doesn't matter is the
inbound outbounds right and it's driving
leads brain awareness and drive demands
and a lot of information we'll be
checking in terms of marketing's
performance is based on the past
campaigns
we have run
and you said that's a lagging indicators
yes in a way because well let's share
the results of the campaigns we have run
in the past six months
if that's a lagging indicators and you
mentioned leading versus lagging
indicators can you talk to us a little
bit more about that
yeah and i think that this is another
problem that marketers have
because if you think about it first off
again we are in our day-to-day minutia
right so we're like oh web traffic
increased today this is great it really
doesn't mean anything to our ceo
it may not even mean anything to your
cmo right because they're trying to
understand
great you have that and that's nice but
how is that going to help us get to our
goals right and so these lagging
indicators again we as marketers we need
to have that we need to measure that we
definitely want to show roi for the
campaigns that we have no no question
about that
but if we're talking about leading
indicators we're talking about how is
this now going to predictably
have
you know usually revenue growth or
growth of some kind what is this going
to lead us to right and so this is why
it's really important so if you think
about let's just take an example right
like let's say you have 20 000 visitors
to your website this month or this
quarter i'm making up numbers probably
not hopefully it's higher than that
but so if you go into a meeting and you
say we had 20 000 website visitors
there's like no context around it and it
means nothing it means nothing to
leaders right so a good way of saying it
but it's still talking about still like
lagging is to say
we we had 20 000 visitors which is a 10
increase so now they're like oh okay you
spent some money and now you've
increased by 10 so that's that's a good
way of talking about it but a better way
would be to say
we had we increased our target audience
website visitors by 10
because we knew what they were looking
for and we created content and delivered
specifically for that audience so that's
like a better way of saying it but best
kind of combines the lagging and the
leading would be to say we increased our
visits by targeting our audience by and
increased it by 10
due to our campaigns that we you know
knew we were going to do
and we expect that this will lead to
more pipeline and 10 more revenue right
and so you're trying to everybody we
don't really talk about it but everybody
in the company is trying to get to
predictability right like that is how
you can say okay this is this is what
we're expecting and so if you can bring
that more of that leading into your
conversation it helps them frame it like
okay i know what you spent your money on
i can understand the roi and i can
understand what your expectations are
going forward actually we can take one
step further if you will and i like the
way you expand it right it's not just
about 20 growth but you talk about 20
growth in a way that in relationship to
how you're going to help the sales how
it's going to help the business
objective and also that you really
narrow down to a target audience we can
also expand it a little bit more take
all your points if you will sometimes if
you use ipsniffer you can see which
account or what companies that actually
come to our website if you actually do a
little research not just looking to the
aggregate number of 20 000 traffic but
you can also say oh this is 20 000
traffic these two three account is
actually a account that we want to go
after guess what some of them actually
come to our website so i think code.hour
will also help tremendously
or you know to your point even if again
because we're in b2b so we have
multi-year contracts usually like if we
see that there's even one of our
customers is on our site and so that
might mean that not everybody in the
company in that particular company knows
that they already have the solution or
maybe they're looking for something else
from our solution so it's a good
opportunity for those you know the
account managers to go take a look and
see what's happening or customer success
to hopefully either reduce churn or help
when it comes time to renewal as well
all this honestly christina i agree with
you but it does require some work
on the marketing side this is not
something that you date i want to show
like 20 000 views oh yeah that's good
but you actually really need to look
into it
right you're like oh look here it is all
the information
exactly you actually have to analyze and
go behind the data to understand what
the data is trying to tell you and then
find the nugget it's work
i always tell b2b marketers you know the
job is not that easy a lot of people say
oh you know there's a lot of blog posts
out there say oh b2b marketing make it
simple i was like seriously it is hard
work
there's no shortcut everyone there's no
shortcut
that's this is no and it's funny i i
think i was like at a starbucks one time
and i don't know how it happened but the
you know the the barista was like oh you
know what are you doing i said marketing
strategy she's like oh yeah that seems
really easy maybe i'll get into that and
i was like
well 30 you know many degrees 30 years
of pain because i know therapy
a lot of drinking
a lot of drinking right
somebody once asked me like if you were
to tell a marketing person or somebody
who's interested in marketing what's the
one thing they really need to focus on
and that is understanding data right
like if you don't if you're afraid of it
you don't you don't want to touch it i
think one and there's there's so many
things that marketers could do do better
and one of them is like literally owning
the technology right i know you know
your book about ai is really important
and critical it's not just
about ai and how it's used in in
marketing right now and how that will
help you become a better marketer and
help your company succeed both
professionally and from a business
standpoint but it has to do with
marketers understanding that we can use
this technology to do our job better and
show that influence and impact and value
that we're bringing
but that means owning owning the
technology i can't tell you how many
times i've come into a company and it's
like
the it owns salesforce and my marketing
automation tool and i'm like well what
what does it know about the data i'm
trying to extrapolate yeah i do agree
with you a lot of time they probably can
own it in terms of maintaining the tool
but in terms of what the tool will do
that part of it needs to be on directly
by the sales side and then you also need
the administrators and developers a lot
of time you still have to do some custom
coding to make sure the tool is useful
for you i mean that's work again that's
work
it's work it's work and it's you know
and i think that's one of the reasons
why i've been so successful in my teams
because i really i push two things one
is we own revenue period whether you
like it or not and you need to
understand the data and if you
you know i've had people on my teams who
are like like amazing amazing writers
and content producers and they just
they're not going to get the data and
that's okay then i'll supplement with
somebody else on the team to help but i
always encourage like marketing of
old skill set or facets if you will that
they
make an effort to understand other
fields of marketing that say if you
create content you know what well try to
understand email marketing well if you
understand content we'll try to look at
google analytics and see how your
content
is performing you need to somehow get
out of your specific job roles and
responsibility do a little bit more of
that and again like you're saying really
understand it because i think whether
it's your own marketing teams or whether
you're expanding and you know working
more closely with product or sales
having that understanding and going back
to the context really helps you do your
job better and present you know going
back to the original question like
present what it is that you're doing in
a way that's understandable for that
audience i mean we do it that's what we
do as marketers we we create for a
specific audience so we should do that
internally as well well that leads to
another question
internal communication and obviously one
of the key models the marketing is to
understand your audience energy and your
audience deeply obviously that also
applies to internal communication with
c-suites
is actually for the marketer to frame
their discussions or takeaways around
the ceo ceo cto and clo if necessary
so can you give us an example in terms
of how to frame that discussion say if
you want to talk to say ceo and a cto
you should and it's interesting because
as a marketing leader you know you know
this week we talk to the ceo the cfo the
cio every cxo that that's out there we
talk to them but it's important for
everyone in your marketing organization
to
feel comfortable speaking to those folks
or at least having that knowledge to
present you know because you're gonna
i've been in meetings where it's not
like a board meeting we're not
presenting results necessarily but you
know the ceo might turn to the person
who just did an event and be like oh
well you know what what's our expected
revenue and they're like ah
and then they look at me i'm like no no
you need you like you need to own your
campaign and know what it is and feel
comfortable talking talking to them
and i think you know again it goes back
to really understanding
at the end of the day what
what it is that this person is seeking
like again know your audience so the ceo
or let's not even talk about the ceo
let's talk about like a vp of sales
they're concerned about pipeline and
revenue and making sure that their team
meets their numbers and their quota
right so that's that's what you need to
be speaking to them about when i was
working at a company
one time i somebody one of the sales
team complained that you know marketing
just talks about all the great stuff we
do and and it doesn't mean it's
meaningless to them
and so i thought about it i'm like yeah
i know i get what you're saying we're
like we're great this is what we did
and he said he's like it makes sales
look bad when you have because i had
this big chart up like we brought in 50
000 leads this month
and then
unbeknownst to me the ceo is like well
marketing just brought in 50 000 leads
what are you doing with them not even
realizing that we haven't even given
those to sales yet right like we're
still nurturing them they're still with
us they're not qualified for sales yet
so
we were giving this misimpression to to
the ceo it was making the sales team
look bad so we had this monthly meeting
that we would have with the sales team
and we would always start off top of the
funnel and make sure on the same page
yeah
we were about to go into this meeting it
was right after this conversation i had
and i told the person on my team who
presented i'm like i'm like flip our
slides he's like what do you mean i'm
like start from the back start from how
much pipeline and revenue we brought in
and then if we ever get to how many you
know website videos visitors we have it
it doesn't matter right because this is
what's going to engage
sales to have an interactive
conversation about what's working and
what's not working so he's like okay so
he literally flipped the slides around
and we started with this is the pipeline
we brought in and this is the revenue we
brought in and we never got to how many
you know website visitors we had because
it didn't it didn't matter to them it
didn't matter to them anymore yeah and
so that's what we're talking about here
like think about who you're talking to
and and again you i've had this happen
so many times you're walking through the
hall and somebody's like hey blah blah
blah it's not it's not scripted it's not
a planned meeting but people want to
know what's going on and so you always
have to have these nuggets in your back
pocket so you can talk about it but
again you need to talk to them in a way
that's meaningful to them on the sales
side i 100 agree even with the cro chief
revenue officers talking about the sales
revenue and the pipelines are very
important and ceo cares about that a lot
too if i talk to coo
i usually focus on processes what kind
of processes that we are doing
especially on the martech stack the cto
side of things if they really care about
all the tools that we are using and i
always talk about in terms of how tours
are performing there's no tools are down
and cim or marketing automation tools
are running very nicely
and another thing i will bring into kind
of coo and the cto's attention it's
usually about processes and also how the
tools usage what's the tools to usage
and to make sure that they understand
that part of it but most of the time i
do agree with you the key things that
everybody cares the most tend to be a
revenue and growth impact and that makes
sense because if you think about what
your overall corporate objective is it
is usually a revenue revenue yeah even
if it's an ipo maybe maybe you're
looking at revenue maybe you're looking
at ebitda maybe you're looking at number
of accounts or like you're going to look
at some of things but at the end of the
day you're really looking at that that
revenue number and and i think the other
thing to your point that's really
important when you're talking to that
cio cto they want to understand because
some of that oftentimes that budget will
come from their budget exactly to
support it yeah especially in a big
enterprise yeah i can't tell you how
many times people are like well you know
i have this list of all of your you know
do you use all of these tools and
technology and it's like yes do you
really need salesforce
yeah cancel that part you know
subscription there's nothing i use in
the past two years
to be fair there are times when i'm like
oh yeah okay we should probably leverage
that more or get rid of it and that
that's great it's good to do that kind
of an audit but again we need to help
them understand how these tools are
helping us do our job better and again
getting us to that that ultimate
corporate goal that we have
so what is one thing that marketers need
to do when preparing their communication
or presentation to c-suite if you
actually have one advice what would that
be
i would say keep it short i love that i
like that
and it doesn't need to be a fancy pretty
slide again i literally just throw up a
number it's like you know 4.5 million
this quarter right five million
functions right 78
[Laughter]
keep it super simple because what you
want is you want them to take that away
immediately and then
and then you still need to have that
backup material because they're going to
ask more questions about it which is
fine i would just say keep it simple and
keep it to the point and again what it
is that they're looking for right if the
cto is trying to understand how you're
leveraging the technology and do we need
all these licenses then start with that
if the ceo wants to understand you know
what the what revenue is is happening
talk about that sales pipeline right
it's product really wants to better
understand
how people are using their product and
marketers tend to have that information
because we own all the tools that people
are communicating with whether it's chat
or
things like that right so there's
there's definitely ways that you can
consider it and if you don't know simply
ask them like what like what motivates
you right i know have a conversation
just ask right just ask it was funny i
had a conversation with um with an
engineering team i basically made them
come to a marketing brown bag once and
they were just like i
you know like the fact that they even
showed up was great but they were like
all on their phones eating their lunch
and at one point i was like look this is
the role you can help
my team we need data about how our
customers are using our products and you
know we need to get some information on
case studies and suddenly this one guy
pops up and he's like oh my god we have
10 years of usage data would that be
helpful i'm like uh
yeah that would be freaking amazing
and they
and they got all excited about it and so
then they felt like they were part of
our process you know they were total
geeks about the data so they were like
deep diving into it and and again just
helping them understand how they can
help you and you can help them and and
helping them really just sort of really
understand what it is that that you are
doing and how they can help you as well
as you helping them so how can people
find you
yeah you can find me at christinavr.com
also my book is on amazon sway i'm on
linkedin and i love connecting i love
talking about this you know i know you
do as well so it's uh happy to always
chat with people and and and uh you know
either mentor give advice just
commiserate whatever reach out if you
have any questions
so i would like to end it with one
ceiling questions what show are you
binge watching right now and do you
recommend it i'm binge watching great
right now it's a fantastic show it's
super funny just a little bit of gore
but not too much
excellent well christina is wonderful to
have you thank you so much for thank you
like wow
yeah thank you thank you everybody
bye-bye
[Music]
miss an episode of b2b marketing and
more by following us here on youtube and
leave a comment while you're at it you
can also find episodes wherever you get
your podcasts
[Music]